---
title: v0.18.0
layout: default

grand_parent: Users
parent: Release Notes
nav_order: 1
---

# v0.18.0 (Beta-11)

Download v0.18.0 on the OpenSpace website [installation page.](https://openspaceproject.com/version-0180) Below are notes that highlight new content, features, and bug fixes that will be of most interest to OpenSpace users. A complete changelog is available on the [release page](/docs/general/releases.html#beta-11) and will likely also be of interest to users importing data or customizing OpenSpace.


## New content

  - Two new profiles, Bastille Day 2000 and Solar Storm 2012, feature dynamic renderings of Coronal Mass Ejections (CMEs) 
  - Added image sequences available from [NOAA's Science-on-a-Sphere datasets](https://sos.noaa.gov/catalog/datasets/) 
  - Added new layers for the Moon, Mars, and Mercury from NASA TREKS
  - Added model-based representations of the Mars moons Phobos and Deimos
  - Added the Starlink satellites and other active satellites
  - Added a model of the Eiffel tower that can be used for scale references 

  
 **Improvements to existing content**
 
 - Updates to James Webb Space Telescope profile 
   - Added a new animated model
   - Updated timing of launch date to actual launch
   - Added a [custom webpage](http://ui.openspaceproject.com/jwst_scripts/index.html) to control the orientation of the telescope
 - Updates to Action Panel with new user actions
 
 ## New features
 
 **SkyBrowser**
 - This feature brings high-resolution astronomical images from the [American Astronomical Society WorldWide Telescope](https://worldwidetelescope.org/) into OpenSpace. The location of a selected image is shown in the 3D view of OpenSpace.
 
 **Fly-to and Zoom-to** These new features should make it easier to navigate in OpenSpace. 
 - The new Zoom-to feature allows users to automatically fly between different objects by clicking the airplane icon in the navigation menu.
 - The Fly-to button will automatically reposition the focused object into view.
 - For in-depth camera paths naviagation, see [here](http://wiki.openspaceproject.com/docs/users/navigation/camera-paths.html)
 
 **Actions** 
 - You can now create actions by binding a key to trigger an action. 
 
 **Event System** 
 - This feature automatically triggers specific events depending on the state in OpenSpace. For example, automatically fading an object's trail when approaching the object.
 
 **User interface improvements**
 - Added a new panel to create SGCT configuration files
 - Added a panel showing the keyboard and all actions that are bound to keys
 - Added links to tutorial pages in the menu
 - Added the ability for users to reorder planetary layers
 
 
 ## Bug fixes
 
 The bug fixes below are of most interest to users. This release includes many more bug fixes, which are listed on the [release page](http://wiki.openspaceproject.com/docs/general/releases.html#beta-11).
 
 - Fixed issues that would prevent Windows 11 from being detected correctly
 - Prevent a crash when a profile does not provide any Time or Camera information
 - Fixed a crash when unloading GlobeBrowsing layers
 - Fixed issue that prevents the drag-dropping of an image that has extra dots in the name
 - Fixed issue loading a colormap for the Gaia stars
 - Fixed for a crash that happened occasionally when adding exoplanet systems
 
 

 
