---
title: v0.19.1
layout: default

grand_parent: Releases
parent: Release Notes
nav_order: 1
---

# v0.19.1 (Beta-12)

Download Version 0.19.1 on the OpenSpace website [installation page.](https://openspaceproject.com/version-0191) Below are notes that highlight new content, updates, and bug fixes that will be relevant for OpenSpace users. A complete changelog is available on the [release changelog page](/docs/general/releases/changelog/0.19.html) and will be relevant to users who are importing data or customizing OpenSpace.

## Features

- Screen Borders: You can now display borders around ScreenSpaceRenderables.
- GeoJSON Management: A new trigger allows you to delete a GeoJSON component.
- Interaction Controls: Choose to disable roll and zoom during interactions.
- Sun Sizing: Decide the apparent size of the Sun in the atmosphere.
- Visual Fades: You can smoothly fade in/out the RenderableFieldLinesSequences.

## Launcher
- Example Update: We made a tiny correction to the openspace.cfg example.

## User Interface
- Checkbox Fixes: Checkboxes won’t shrink for long profile names and will work only if clicked.
- Offline UI: Icons will still appear even if you start OpenSpace offline.
- Visual Tweaks: The settings buttons are back to their original brightness.

## Content
- New Additions: Dive into the JUICE mission, explore eclipse shadows in the Earth/Moon system, view eclipses from 1900-2100, and much more.
- Profile Updates: Tweaked tags for Charon and Pluto’s moons for consistency.
- Shadow Visuals: New renderable to show shadow cone between celestial bodies.

## Lua (Scripting)
- Camera Control: Easily reset the camera to its starting position.
- Asset Management: Function added to remove all loaded assets.

## Bug Fixes
- Script Execution: Fixed a problem for dome users executing scripts twice.
- Camera and Visual Fixes: Addressed crashes, layering issues during eclipses, and more.
- Content Loading: Improved error messages for GeoJSON and prevented continuous errors for invalid images.
- Graphical Fixes: Tackled rendering issues, crashes, and quality improvements for various scenarios, including the galaxy rendering and the Mars map.
- Miscellaneous: Fixed several smaller issues, including the location of the educational Statue of Liberty asset.


